I'll show you a
chronological order
of when the models
were discovered.
We will also see the advantages
and the disadvantages
of each model.
Let's start. This is
a quick outline where you can
see we start here with
continuous bag of words model,
then we got ELMo,
then we got GPT,
then we got BERT AND finally
we ended up having
T5 and so more.
Like over here we're
going to end up having
many more models coming
up, hopefully soon.
This is not a
complete history of
all relevant models
and research findings,
but it's useful to see
what problems arise with
each model and what
problems each model solves.
Let's look at context over here.
Let's say we have
the word right.
Ideally, we want to see
what this word means.
We can look at the
context before it.
Then we can also look at
the context after it.
That's how we've been
able to train word
embeddings so far.
The continuous bag
of words over here,
you have the word right.
Previously what
you've been doing,
you would take a fixed window,
say two before and two
after, or three or four,
whatever as CS is
for the window size.
Then you'll take the
corresponding words,
feed them into a neural network,
and predict the central word
in this case, which is right.
Now the issue over here is that,
what if we wanted to look at
not only the fixed window,
but all the words before
and all the words after.
How can we do that? If
you want more context.
They were on D over here.
This is the first left part
of the sentence and then
all the right parts
of the sentence.
Instead of having
the fixed window,
we want to add the streets
or history for example.
To use all of the context words,
what researchers have done,
they explored the
following using RNN.
They would use an RNN from
the right and from the left.
Then they would have a
bi-directional LSTM,
which is a version of
recurrent neural network.
You feed both of them in.
Then you can predict
the center word right.
That gives you the word
embedding for the word, right.
Now, open AI GPT what it did.
We had transformer,
the encoder decoder
architecture that
you're familiar with.
Then we ended up having
this GPT which makes use
of a decoder of stacks only.
In this case we only
have one decoder,
but you can have several
decoders in the picture.
ELMo made use of RNNs or LSTMs.
We would use these models to
predict the central word.
Why not use a
bi-directional model?
In this case, this
is the transformer,
and you can see that in
the transformer over here,
each word can peek at itself.
If we were to use it for under,
right, you can only
look at itself.
But the issue is that
you cannot peek forward.
Remember, you've seen
this in causal attention
where you don't look
forward you only
look at the previous ones.
BERT came and helped
us solve this problem.
This is a recap.
Transformers, encoder decoder,
GPT makes use of decoders
and BERTs makes use of encoders.
Over here you have
the Legislature
believed that they were on
the blank side of history,
so they changed the law.
Over here we can make use of
bi-directional encoder
representations from
transformers and this will
help us solve this issue.
This is an example
of a transformer
plus bi-directional context.
You feed this into your model
and then you get right and of.
Because of this,
you're able to look
at the sentence from
the beginning and from
the end and make use of
the context to predict
the corresponding words.
If we're to look at
words to sentences,
meaning instead of trying
to predict just the word,
we'll try to predict what
the next sentence is.
Given the sentence over here,
the legislators believed that
they were on the right
side of history.
Is this the next sentence or
is this the next sentence?
You have a sentence A and
then you try to predict
the next sentence B.
In this case it's obviously
so they changed the law.
BERT pre-training tasks makes
use of multi-mask
language modeling.
The same thing that
you've seen before and
it makes use of the next
sentence prediction.
It takes two sentences
and it predicts
whether it's a yes
meaning sentence
two follow sentence one,
or sentence B follow
sentence A or not.
Let's look at encoder
versus encoder decoder.
Over here you have
the transformer,
which had the encoder
and the decoder stack.
Then you had GPT,
which just had decoder stack,
and then BERT, just
the encoder stack.
T5 tested the
performance when using
the encoder decoder as in the
original transformer model.
The researchers
found that the model
performed better when it
contained both the encoder
and the decoder stacks.
Let's look at the multi-task
training strategy
over here so you have studying
with deeplearning.ai was.
It's being fed into the model
and it gives you a
five star rating.
Hopefully it's a
Then you have a question and
then you get the answer.
But the question here is,
how do you make sure that
the model knows which
task it's performing in?
Because you can feed
in a review over here.
How do you know
that it's not going
to return an answer instead?
How do you know it's
going to return a rating?
Or if you feed in a question,
how do you know it's
not going to return
some numerical outputs or
some text version of
a numerical output?
Let's see how to do this. Over
here is an example where,
let's say you're trying
to classify whether this
is five stars or four
stars or three stars.
You append the string,
classify for example.
Then it classifies it
and you get five stars.
Let's say you want to summarize,
so you add the string
summarize colon.
It goes into the model.
It's automatically identifies
that you're trying to
summarize and it says
that it was all right.
You have a question you
append question string.
It knows that it's a question
and it returns the answer.
Now, this might not be
the exact text that
you'll find in the paper,
but it gives you the
overall sense of the idea.
In summary, you've seen
the continuous bag
of words model,
which makes use of a
fixed context window.
You've seen ELMo,
which makes use of a
bi-directional LSTM.
You've seen GPT, which
is just a decoder stack,
and you can see
uni-directional in context.
Then you've seen BERT,
which makes use of
bi-directional encoder
representation
from the transformer,
and it also makes use of
multi-mask language modeling
and next sentence prediction.
Then you've seen the
T5 which makes use of
the encode decoder
stack and also
makes use of mask and
multi-task training.
You have now seen an
overview of the models.
You have seen how the text
to text model has a prefix.
With the same model, you
can solve several tasks.
In the next video, we will be
looking at the birth
model in more detail,
also known as the Bidirectional
Encoder representation
for Transformers.